---
title: "Active Visuo-Haptic Object Shape Completion"
categories:
  - research
author_profile: false
---

Rustler, L., Lundell, J., Behrens, J. K., Kyrki, V., & Hoffmann, M. (2022). 'Active Visuo-Haptic Object Shape Completion'.
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters 7 (2), 5254-5261. [https://doi.org/10.1109/LRA.2022.3152975](https://doi.org/10.1109/LRA.2022.3152975)

# Abstract
Recent advancements in object shape completion have enabled impressive object reconstructions using only visual input. 
However, due to self-occlusion, the reconstructions have high uncertainty in the occluded object parts, which negatively
impacts the performance of downstream robotic tasks such as grasping. In this letter, we propose an active visuo-haptic 
shape completion method called Act-VH that actively computes where to touch the objects based on the reconstruction 
uncertainty. Act-VH reconstructs objects from point clouds and calculates the reconstruction uncertainty using IGR, 
a recent state-of-the-art implicit surface deep neural network. We experimentally evaluate the reconstruction accuracy 
of Act-VH against five baselines in simulation and in the real world. We also propose a new simulation environment for 
this purpose. The results show that Act-VH outperforms all baselines and that an uncertainty-driven haptic exploration 
policy leads to higher reconstruction accuracy than a random policy and a policy driven by Gaussian Process Implicit 
Surfaces. As a final experiment, we evaluate Act-VH and the best reconstruction baseline on grasping 10 novel objects.
The results show that Act-VH reaches a significantly higher grasp success rate than the baseline on all objects. 
Together, this letter opens up the door for using active visuo-haptic shape completion in more complex cluttered scenes.

{% include video id="iZF4ph4zMEA" provider="youtube" %}
